# JavaFX_HW
Partners: Swapnil S. & Alex T.

homework - ToDo: ~500 words about experience and what we learned 

Overall this tutorial was fun and informational. This first part was a basic helloworld assignment that brought back good memories of when we first learned how to code, but that being said it was also fairly straight forward in terms of coding. The interesting part however was how the JavaFX played into the code. Even though it was fairly straight forward itself in terms of incorporation of code it also cool to try out new libraries and see how they work with java. In this task we were introduced to Javafx projects. The second assignment was more advanced and provided a lot more opportunity for learning, but it also was reminiscent of web app work seen done with python. All in all the first two assignments were straight forward and informational. The third one was very easy for the both of us as it was dealing with basic CSS work, and both of us have had experience with that. Even though it was easy and straightforward, it was still a good experience to brush up on old skills and learn to incorporate them with new ones. It was because of this that the third assignment was the most fun for both of us.
The 4th and 5th part of the assignment focused on the model, view, and controller structure of a project. In these parts we explored how the fxml files can be edited using scenebuilder. Scenebuilder is a handy tool for setting up the layout and also assigning controllers to the view aspects of the project. We saw how different fxml files can be layered on top of each other to get an overall interface. In these parts we made a few fxml files in the view package and controlled them through our driver class, MainApp. This showed how the MVC structure can be very useful for handling interfaces and the code controlling the interfaces. The 4th part of the assignment taught us the basics of scenebuilder and how it operates with javafx projects. The 5th part focused more in the modeling of the project and adding some logic to it. In this part we assigned controllers to the scenebuilder objects. This added the functionality to the interface that we created using the drag and drop feature of scenebuilder.
Overall, this was a great introduction to javaFx. The focus was not so much on the coding side as it was in the organization and management of different components. We were introduced to the tools that allowed us to make functioning graphical objects. Using javaFx for this purpose was convenient and efficient. Although, I do hope that a more efficient way of creating logical interface is available in the future. Even though we did very basic operations, creating the graphical objects was a messy experience. Knowing how to manage graphical components and logical components is very important for a complete and functioning project.
